If you'd like, you can sit down there.
Okay.
Why don't you just tell me your name so I can have it on.
So I'll know who I'm talking to when I come to listen to the tape.
Okay.
So we are in the selection office, right?
Right.
And your name is Lolita.
I got that mic.
Oh.
I'm Lolita Silva, and I have been— S-I-L-V-E-R?
No, S-I-L-V-A.
S-I-L-V-A.
Right.
Okay.
And I have been in the office since 1969, April 1969.
Okay, that's a considerable period of time.
Right.
Well, this office was started by my predecessor, Mrs. Metz, in 1947.
She was in the job until she left the library.
So I suspect the people that come to this job must like it, and they just stay.
For fifty years, then, there has been an office that does what?
Basically, we regulate what comes into the library.
Many other people— Okay, Nicholas, this is Merrilee Smith, so— Five minutes, Merrilee.
Okay, first of all, this library, as you know, is so large, our acquisitions are basically on a gargantuan state.
It encompasses the whole world.
And the office was formed, and it's still the function, even so,
we ourselves will not be doing it physically, other people will, is many times books arrive here, they haven't really been pre-selected.
They arrive here automatically.
Like most government documents from almost all countries, also of course from the U.S.
too, state documents.
Through our exchanges, we have piece-by-piece exchange, like the recommending officers deliberately might choose a title, but then we also have exchanges with institutions where they send their publications.
So when the publications come in, traditionally our job has been then at that point to select, also with a copyright deposit.
By selecting to keep?
To keep, yes.
Are you also selecting to not keep?
Yes, keep and discard.
And also how many copies.
Our office has been responsible for the keep-discard decision, which is the first decision, then how many copies to keep of an item, and the priority for cataloging.
So we give directions what items should be catalogued first.
Now, do you have a form that you fill out, or do you do directions on the computer?
No, not on the computer.
That would be impossible.
We handle too many items per day.
The priorities, we use paper slips with numbers on it, like this.
Sure, I can give you a clue.
not the number one, because that's a reserve for... Okay, no, I understand.
Okay.
Anyway, if you want.
Okay, good.
And... Well, this is great.
So, with these slips, you can do what?
You can... Well, this gives direction to the catalogers what items they should be doing first, and also, it's
It's used as a routing slip because there are very many cataloging divisions, so where the item goes.
So there are how many categories?
Divisions?
I think divisions, there are four, and teams, there are like 40 teams.
They're divided by subjects.
And how many items a day would you say you deal with, or in a week?
Well, many items we see more than once because of the way the workflow is, especially with U.S.
publications.
We're responsible for all trade, basically, books that come into the library that's in the book trade.
So our sources are copyright and cataloging in publication office.
Because we provide cataloging, the publisher sends us a copy of the book
So we tend, basically, many times it's the same item.
We tend to see many times the same item more than once because it comes in from different sources.
But I mean, I'm just thinking, do you have help doing this or do you do this by yourself?
No, I, right now we are two people that are doing it.
But this office always has been small because it's, we don't really, we don't have to, what happens with experience,
is that you can look at something and basically, if you see the publisher on the spine, you see the title, you know what you're going to do with it.
In your mind, it just goes by category.
What takes longer is the ephemera, because there you actually have to sometimes read a little bit in it and decide what to do.
With the books that are basically like bookstore books, the decision process is very fast.
And I'll ask no more questions because I think we have to go more.
Right.
Like those children's books over there, those bathtub books.
Yes.
What's going to happen to them as cute as they are?
The pop-up books?
The pop-up books we keep.
We have a collection in the Children's Literature Center of the pop-up books.
What you see also on exhibit here is
Our second copy.
We have all those in our collection.
Actually, I collect pop-up books, and they are really very—I love them.
Oh, I do, too.
They're a pleasure, too.
I heard you think you were going off to the term.
No, they're not.
No, no, no.
Absolutely not.
They're valued.
Where do they go, by the way?
Things that you decide— Okay, well, a lot of— A little bit of a shredder, or what happens?
Well, there probably is a share someplace, but basically we try to exchange all items that are of value to somebody.
So if it is a children's book, it will go into our exchange.
Schools, for instance, can come here.
Representatives, through their congressmen, they can come here and get books.
Can they do that?
Some, yes.
But these books aren't sent to Atlanta?
No, no.
Oh, no.
I was in San Francisco last weekend.
They had 200,000 books.
No, and also, well, some items probably do end up there, but we also deal, because of our copyright office, we deal, you know, with anything can be copyrighted, as long as it has print on us, practically.
You must know that.
So perhaps some of those secondary items, you know, would provide...
for the landfill.
But books, we have a very active exchange program in exchanging gifts, and they will try and exchange the books for items we need.
So they're used.
I have to run.
I'm sorry.
Once more, please.
You say 200,000 items passed through your hands.
So there's a copy—200,000 that has entered the collection volumes?
Well, probably more copies of our hands, but approximately 200,000 volumes are added to the collections on an annual basis.
And they all first come through this office?
Not all.
I would say about three-fourths—well, I'm not sure about how many.
Let's say maybe 150,000 or something.
Because we don't handle material in Chinese, Japanese, or Hebrew, because we can't read it.
But we do in all European languages, and in Russian and Slavic languages, and also Greek.
Do you read all these languages?
Enough to make a decision, yes.
Well, I started out basically with Russian, German, French.
I took Spanish while I was here, and Italian, and the other ones you sort of pick up enough.
We have a wall of dictionaries right there.
Is your background in librarianship?
Well, I actually did—yes, I have a degree in library science, but I studied languages in college and international sphere.
And then I ended up going to library school.
Where did you go to library school?
Columbia.
So they lamented Columbia?
Lamented Columbia Library School.
They don't have it anymore.
They needed the space.
Well, they said it wasn't making enough money for them.
That was probably true.
The University of Chicago has ended its program.
And Berkeley is no longer teaching library skills.
It doesn't permeate coated supercalendar paper very effectively.
It will, in fact, benefit coated supercalendar paper, but you'll get more of the chemistry on the surface.
And then you may end up with a residual powdery coating on the paper that's undesirable.
I know at least one institution, in spite of that, that's treating coded materials because they know that it does some good.
So the Library of Congress has chosen not to.
So we're sending books essentially with what you might view as standard book papers, wood ground, ground wood paper, traditional, for the most part, hard bound books.
So they treated some paperback books for us.
But mostly we're sending traditional
from our general collections and from some special collections within the library?
We have 117 million or so books.
We have about 17 million books.
17 million books in the library.
17 million.
So in a perfect world, all 17 million would be subjected to this?
No, in a perfect world, 17 million books.
shouldn't be subjected to any treatment, in my view, for several reasons.
Whereas, perhaps, Dr. Shahani would say about 90% of these books are probably acidic, if anyone would guess what percentage of them are already so acidic that you could characterize them as being embrittled.
If a book is so brittle
that it can't safely be handled more than a few times, then it's really not a very good candidate for deassociation.
If the paper in a book is so unbridled, and you're familiar with brittle paper, I'm sure, it's really a candidate for reformatting, such as microfilming, or perhaps in the future for digitization.
Whichever.
Whichever, depending on which side of the debate about whether digitization is a preservation activity or not.
That's not a debate you're on for.
There are a lot of recently acquired books in the Library of Congress and in other libraries, of course, especially since about the 1970s to the present, which are published on alkaline papers, alkaline or permanent papers.
So a lot of books that we screen, we actually handle and examine books individually to see whether they're good candidates for deacidification or not.
A lot of books that we handle are brittle.
A lot of books that we handle are duplicates.
We don't spend money via the divine two copies of the same book or the same title of the same book.
So we make discriminating decisions like that.
A lot of the books that we handle are on alkaline paper.
We use pH pens and test books.
If there's a fairly recent book, you see this is alkaline.
You see the purple results here.
Oh, this is acidic.
So if you do this on something that's acidic,
It's been deacidified, by the way.
And something that's acidic, it's yellow.
If you do it on... But this is coated paper, which has clay coating on the surface, which is alkaline.
And a lot of modern book papers, especially in publications in developed countries like the United States and Western Europe, are already being produced today on alkaline paper.
So there's no need for us to deacidify them.
The Library of Congress, however, probably over sixty percent of our acquisitions are from foreign countries, and a large percentage of the foreign acquisitions that we obtain are from not fully developed countries, which still produce acidic paper.
So we're still acquiring a large quantity of acidic books.
Is that seventeen million figures, is that for the books that are in the general collections and law only?
I'm not sure.
I think it's a total book count for the library, but I'm not sure.
What's the cost to the library to do a book?
Under our current contract, it's a little over eleven dollars.
The current contract is eleven.
I think we're paying eleven dollars and sixty-nine cents a book.
Compared to letting a book get brittle enough and then reformatting it at today's prices, I mean, we're paying an average of about, ahead of our reformatting office, there's about $935 to reformat a book.
So if we avoided deacidifying this book, if we had avoided deacidifying this book 20 years ago, it became totally brittle.
Instead of spending $11 or $12 to deacidify it,
We decided, you know, as a candidate 20 years later for reformatting, we might spend ten times as much to reformat it.
So at the moment, it's in your—it behooves you to follow this route.
To do both.
I mean, there's so many books in both categories—in a number of categories.
That's why we make discriminating preservation decisions and send some books for repair, some books for rebinding and binding repair, some books for reformatting.
some of the more valuable books to professional conservators for professional attention, and some books for deacidification.
But I mean, David Bradbury tells me it's a British library.
It would cost a billion pounds to build this brand-new library.
And it's been estimated if we were going to convert every book that we own, you know,
that would cost us at least fifty billion pounds."
To reformat everything?
Yeah, right.
So that's never going to happen.
You know, the fact is, the books are here for, you know, anyone who thinks that this is—and labor prices are pretty, you know, you might say that the cost of the process might come down, or it will cost you $11.69 a book.
That might come down, but there's still a lot of labor involved, and that's not going to come down.
Well, we might, you know, we can't sit here and say ten years from now we might be doing quantities that are five or ten times what we're doing now, and the cost might come way down, but you're still going to be spending a lot more dollars.
Everything's relative.
Everything that's done in a cultural institution is expensive, but it's expensive to preserve the information and the objects as well.
So, I mean, sometimes you make a decision to preserve information, such as in reformatting.
Sometimes you're making a decision to preserve both the object and the information, such as in professional conservation or in deacidification.
So, and everything, every option that you can exercise has a sort of cost attached to it.
Binding or rebinding repair might cost on average $6 to $9 a book.
Deacidification $10 to $12 a book.
Reformatting $135 to several hundred dollars per book for digitization, depending on what approach you take to it.
What condition the book's in, whether it has a lot of visual images that have to be reformatted in a different way.
and there's a whole range of options and a range of prizes, and you have to have professional people exercise good judgment in deciding what to do with different parts of the collection.
Are you pretty much limited now by the capacity of the...
the company that's doing this for you to do it, or by the budget, by the amount of dollars that you have available?
It's hard to say.
Well, at the present time, I would say we're constrained pretty much by the budget exigences, the amount of funds that we have for this activity.
If you had enough money to do 200,000 books, do you think they could do 200,000 books for you?
Yes, I think they could.
Or other companies.
I mean, one thing the library really looks to is to continue to encourage the development of other processes.
We'd really like to see competition in this field.
Just as we see competition, there's approximately 100 commercial library binders in the United States, various sizes, offering services for libraries.
There's a lot of competition in that field.
It helps hold down the cost of commercial library binding.
We'd like to see some competition in this field in the United States.
That's one reason the library continued to try to develop and perfect its own process while these others were being affected.
We'd also like to see Battelle or some of the other companies that are developing processes in Europe do marketing analysis in the United States and decide to open a plan here.
But they would have to poll library directors and archivists, administrative heads of archivists.
and decides there's enough cumulative interest and real dollars available.
And currently, part of the problem in any kind of emerging technology like this is that the budget situation in multiple institutions in the United States is pretty constrained, and it doesn't really do a lot to encourage the development of it.
Well, this is the Library of Congress, but having been to a number of institutions, I just don't think the money is there for the books.
The money is there for computers and software and digitization, buying journals now online.
I'm wondering if such a company would get the kind of interest
that ought to be there, or that could be there.
I don't want to put a ball of sentiment on it.
It's hard to say.
I mean, in my view, I would suggest that probably for this company or others to make a long-term success out of a mass process like this, the process has to be effective, safe, both to patrons and the environment.
which one of these are big matters.
Much more complicated than they seem on the surface.
But safe and effective.
Non-damaging.
Non-damaging and cost-effective.
So, I don't know what that means.
I don't know what cost-effective means to one library compared to another.
I mean, we may be paying $11, $12 right now and think that
It's fairly reasonable.
Other libraries may be waiting because they want the library for the overall cost to go down compared to other preservation options.
I'm not sure.
Do you work with the newspapers as well?
Is this something you work with?
No.
You mean right now with deacidification?
You don't deacidify them at all.
We're not.
They can be.
And they certainly are by other institutions.
And, for example, the National Library of Austria has a separate process that it uses.
I don't know, there are various options.
They may bind them.
A lot of institutions microfilm newspaper collections.
so that they can have a record set of all the information.
As I suggested, the Austrian National Library deacidifies their valuable newspaper collections.
This process and others could conceivably be used to deacidify newspapers.
And then real valuable rare newspaper collections, of course, can be, and I'm sure on some scale, are deacidified in various institutions by professional conservators in a laboratory setting.
So you can also take valuable copies of old newspapers, and conservators can deacidify them in a fume hood in a laboratory setting.
It's much more expensive, but I've seen old newspapers deacidified that way, a single copy at a time, being sprayed in a laboratory or something.
And what other programs are you involved in, or is this largely the most?
It's the main activity I'm involved in right now.
of the major contractual procurement activities of the Preservation Directive.
And how much money do you have to spend on preservation right now, approximately?
I can't speak to that.
You'd have to ask .
Is that pretty much it?
Do we cover it, do you think?
I think so.
I think if you're going to visit the other institutions like France and Germany, I could tell you things that are on my own, some of which would be apocryphal, I suppose.
Probably best for them to speak for themselves, but there are a lot of important activities going on.
Well, for instance, what should I be looking for?
And this is not to be quoted on, but just to help me in my—I'm a neophyte in this.
National Library is trying to develop, is in fact, has contracted with a corporation in France to develop a process that both deacidifies on a mass scale and strengthens paper.
There haven't been any announcements that I know over the past year and a half.
It's under development and they're not saying anything publicly.
You didn't tell me anything when I was there.
They didn't.
They were very closed-mouthed about things like this until they were fully involved.
Well, they learned a lot from the library's experience in Africa.
I suppose.
And their own.
I mean, they had another process earlier that wasn't entirely successful, and I think Trumpeted a lot about it and probably learned a lot.
Any time any federal agency or government agency
it announces its intentions to do something, people think it's failed because it isn't done the next day.
So it's better to keep it quiet while it's under development so there's no pressure.
And the German Deutsche Bibliothek, as you know, in Frankfurt, working with their
the most big field library in Leipzig was developed as work with Battelle to develop the other process.
That's basically done on contract between the German government and the Battelle company.
Interestingly, an American company in Germany that's developed another— That company is what?
Battelle.
B-A-T-T-E-L-L-E.
That's an American company?
Well, I think the main headquarters of Battelle International is headquartered in Ohio.
So I think my understanding is that the branch of
Mattel that they're working with is a German— So why are they pioneering this over here?
Well, it is not Mattel, because the German National Library or the Cultural Ministry had money to try to develop this technology in Germany.
So they contracted with Mattel in Germany to develop a lot of processes.
So basically it's an underwritten research project.
Right.
Absolutely.
By the cultural institutions.
Again, by the National Library, basically, in Germany.
So I wonder why they are willing to underwrite something like this and nobody else is.
Well, just like we underwrote the development of the DES process, just like the French are underwriting the development of another process.
It's basically the national libraries and archives that are underwriting the development of most of these processes.
Bookkeeper is different.
It was done by a small company of venture.
The Waitot process basically has not been commercialized, but it was developed for use.
to deacidify books in the Canadian National Library.
The books are actually treated for them by the Canadian National Archives.
It's used to treat books in the library.
The funds for the development and building of the equipment and the utilization of that process were furnished by the Canadian government, not by the way to a company.
contracted with a man who's president of Waiteau and come to Canada and work with their engineers to build equipment.
And they buy chemistry, as I understand it, or they have in the past at least bought chemistry from the Waiteau company to operate the equipment.
But in most of these cases, it's the institution.
As I said, the keeper's an exception, so you might want to talk to them.
It'd be a different experience seeing how
the perspective of the small company getting into a business, whereas most of these processes have been developed by institutions.
Is this the fellow who was written about in the Wall Street Journal?
Right, right.
He sounds very interesting.
Actually, well, Mr. Spat, Dick Spat, is the man that holds the patent.
And if you go to Pittsburgh and meet with him and talk to anyone, you might also want to talk to a man named Jim Bird or James Bird.
He's the president of the company.
B-U-R-D.
But Spatz is the fellow that— Spatz is the CEO, basically the owner of the technology.
Do you like the technology?
Do you prefer it to the one you had out of Texas?
No, I don't know.
There are reasons that you would prefer one technology over the other, I suppose, for different kinds of books.
We prefer it because we can get it.
It's a good technology.
It's the only technology available in the United States, and it's safe and effective.
Another kind of melange of advantages that the bookkeeper process has is that it doesn't cause a variety of damages that other processes cause and have caused, like odors and like
like causing iridescent rings on book covers and like removing labels on the spines of books.
Some of these other chemical processes have damaged book labels, have damaged book covers, have made inks bleed, have induced odors into books.
Bookkeeper does none of these kinds of varieties of damages to books.
Somebody had mentioned something to me there, that the Boston Athenaeum
Oh, God, it's too sketchy.
Somebody told me this in a couple months ago.
They had bought some stuff, I guess, that you put on a book.
They even hired the elevator operator to do it.
I mean, they went with a new elevator and he needed a job.
And they said how the covers were just peeling off.
I don't know what the process was.
If I find out, I'll tell you.
I'll go back to my notes.
I mean, there have been a lot of really kind of, not amusing because of the destruction, but a lot of processes that have really destroyed books have made it worse, I guess.
I suppose.
Sometimes people develop things like that and advertise them as being archival quality and safe and that sort of thing, and they're not really fully tested by reputable institutions.
Sometimes they're just claims.
Well, I think we've covered it.
Do you mind if I call you if there are any other questions?
Not at all, no.
Please feel free to.
I hope this helps.
If you're interested in the brochure, which may have their phone numbers, I'll give you a copy of that.
If you can share that, I'd love it.
You're talking about making collections last.
I think one of the grossest generalizations we can make about deacidification, which we haven't really covered, is the fact that most of these processes, our minimum qualifications, and to the extent that I acknowledge that these other processes
One of the things that we require is that any mass utilization process extend the life of a book by a minimum of 300%.
And, in fact, the bookkeeper process, the DES process, some other processes we've evaluated and tested in recent years, in fact, extend the life of a book.
Dr. Shahani estimates 500 to 800%.
So if a book would have a normal life left in it of only fifty years, it might extend its life to two hundred to three hundred years.
If it had a normal life expectancy of a hundred years, and you deal with it if I had it left alone, stored it in a good environment—I mean, there are some assumptions here—if you store it properly in a good library environment, good temperature and humidity and particular control and that sort of thing, and it's not abused by
staff or patrons in the future.
It's a big assumption.
Say you deacidify a book, you store it in proper conditions and don't abuse it, it should last at least 500% longer than it would if you didn't neutralize the acid area.
The degradation scale kept plummeting and the paper kept getting riddle.
So that's the big advantage of deacidification.
Ideally, in the future, I would like to see us have access to processes of both
neutralize the acid in the paper and strengthen it.
So you'd have the option of deacidifying or strengthening or deacidifying and strengthening, or just strengthening.
Right now, in the French, they're the only ones that are working on a dual process, actually trying to... It would be wonderful, perhaps, in the next decade or two, other entities will develop joint deacidification and strengthening processes.
Is it a breakthrough rumored in France?
Is that...
I haven't heard any of them.
Like you, I haven't heard much at all during the French except one or two brief announcements out of plants about what they're doing.
They're working with a company called Separex, and there was a little blurb in the— I haven't heard anything about it.
—what they call the International Preservation League.
What's the name of the company again?
Separex?
I could probably find you a copy of that little announcement.
I've got just a minute.
I've got one more question.
You've probably figured out by now that by far the most effective and cheapest preservation is proper storage and environment and handling.
And all of the things that, or the two things that I have shown you today, are in the realm of treatment.
rather than prevention.
You were asking about the commitment of the library to preservation.
The commitment is primarily shown through the initiatives it's taken to provide us a stable environment, good handling, appropriate storage.
Where those things are overcome by inherent chemical instability
or poor handling prior to acquisition or physical weakness.
That's when these other technologies that you've been looking at come into play, or when there's a high demand for access, which is part of what's driving—the major thing is driving digitization.
What is the driving of the digitization is the access, you say?
For everyone.
Because when it's digitized, you can flip it up on the internet and immediately the whole world can see it.
That's major access.
You know, one thing, if you could, I'd love to see, and all the times I've been in this building, I've never actually seen books, where you keep books.
Is that something where you just do a fast walk just to see?
That's more difficult than to have a building.
It's no big deal.
We need to arrange a stack pass for you.
How hard would it be to arrange a stack pass for Mr. Vaskin?
Not today.
That's too late.
Well, maybe another time.
You know, the stacks are not open to the public.
That's fine.
It's part of our— That's fine.
Just fine.
No problem.
Here, and they're using this process as what you'd call supercritical fluid to kind of explain—what is here in this paragraph?
Oh, yeah.
Well, you really should see the stacks.
I should, yeah.
Because it gives you better appreciation of the scope of the problem.
One quick question.
Who selects the books?
We have a staff that's trained.
I mean, it includes preservation staff, and they work with a custodial staff in the different divisions in the library.
At the global level?
At the global level.
Oh, at the global level.
So far, there's been a management committee of supervisory and senior librarians that specialize in different divisions in the library, have gotten together and made recommendations to the Associate Librarian of Congress.
Which kind of stuff.
The preservation policy group.
The decisions will be made more before they get to you.
The screen for the authentication is decided by a management team that knows a lot about the collections.
That's important.
Right.
What are you reading?
Thanks for reading.
I'll be in touch, okay?
It's a pleasure.
Yeah, thanks a lot.
See you tomorrow.
Good, thanks.